SQL Syntax Elements:

Statement start point: Denotes the beginning of the main syntax line for a statement.

Main syntax line: Determines the order of required and optional elements for the statement.

Keywords: Major words in SQL grammar that are required parts of the syntax.

Literal entry: Specifies the name of a value you explicitly supply to the statement.

Defined term: Represents an operation that returns a final value to be used in the statement.

Optional element: Any element or group of elements that appears below the main syntax line.

Sub-optional element: Denotes an element or group of elements that appears below an optional element.

Option list separator: Indicates that you can specify more than one value for an option using commas.

Alternate option: Denotes a keyword or defined term that can be used as an alternative to one or more optional elements.

Statement end point: Denotes the end of the main syntax line for a statement.

Defined term start point: Denotes the beginning of the main syntax line for a defined term.

Defined term end point: Denotes the end of the main syntax line for a defined term.

Sample SELECT Statement:

SELECT FirstName, LastName, City, DOB AS DateOfBirth
FROM Students
WHERE City = 'El Paso'

This SELECT statement retrieves four columns (FirstName, LastName, City, and DOB) from the Students table.

The value expressions can be column names, expressions using column names, or constant (literal) values.

The AS sub-option assigns an alias (DateOfBirth) to the DOB column.

The WHERE clause filters the result to show only students who live in El Paso.

Sample Databases:

The book provides nine sample databases: Sales Orders, Entertainment Agency, School Scheduling, Bowling League, and Recipes.

These databases cover various scenarios such as order entry, event management, school scheduling, bowling league tracking, and recipe management.

Sample databases are provided in formats such as Microsoft Access, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, and PostgreSQL.

Instructions on how to install the sample databases are provided in the book.

Important Considerations:

Use ISO-Standard SQL as the base language.
Modify the sample SQL as necessary to work with your specific database system.

Pay attention to date and time functions supported by your database system.

Refer to the companion script files to see the original SQL used for creating views, functions, or stored procedures.

These notes should provide you with a basic understanding of SQL syntax and the sample databases mentioned. Make sure to refer to the book for detailed explanations and examples as you study further.




